you
this lecture is about how we can
evaluate a ranked list in this lecture
we will continue the discussion of
evaluation in particular we're going to
look at that how we can evaluate the
ranked list of results in the previous
lecture we talked about precision and
recall these are the two basic measures
for quantitatively measuring the
performance of search result but as we
talked about ranking before we framed
the texture retrieval problem as a
ranking problem so we also need to
evaluate the quality of a ranked list
how can we use precision and recall to
evaluate a reqtest well naturally we
have to look at the precision and recall
at different cut-offs because in the end
the approximation of ghrelin document
the set given by a ranked list is
determined by where the user stops
browsing right if we assume the user
secretively browsing the list of results
the user would stop at some point and
that point would determine the set and
then that's the most important cutoff
that we'll have to consider when we
compute the pacinian recall without
knowing where exactly user would stop
then we have to consider all the
positions where the user could stop so
let's look at these positions look at
this slide and then let's look at the
what if the user stops at the first
document what's the precision and recall
at this point what do you think well
it's easy to see that this document is
relevant so the precision is one out of
one we have got one document and that's
random what about the recall well note
that we assume that that there are ten
random in the documents for this query
in the collection so it's one out of ten
what if the user stops at to the second
position
pop - well the proceedings are same one
represent two out of two and the recall
is two out of ten what if the user stops
at the third position well this is
interesting because in this case we have
not got any additional random in the
document so the recall doesn't change
but the precision is lower because we've
got them now reading them
so what's exactly the position well it's
two out of three right and recall is the
same two out of ten so when would we see
another point where the recall would be
different now if you look down the list
well it won't happen and here we have
seen another read in the document in
this case e five at that point that the
recoil is increased to three out of ten
and the precision is the three out of
five so you can see if we keep doing
this we can also get to d8 and then we
will have a proceeding on four out of
eight because there are eight documents
and four of them are relevant and then
recall is a fall out of thing now when
can we get a record of five out of ten
well in this list we don't have it so we
have to go down under this we don't know
where it is but as a convenience we
often assume that the precision is 0 at
all the other the precision is 0 at all
the other levels of recall that are
beyond that the search results so of
course this is a pessimistic assumption
the actual precision would be higher but
we may make this assumption in order to
have an easy way to compute another
measure called average regime that we'll
discuss later now I should also say now
here you see we make these assumptions
that are clearly not accurate but this
is you you're okay for the purpose of
comparing two technical methods and this
is for the relative compared
so it's okay if the actual measure or
actual actual number deviates a little
bit of from the true number as long as
the deviation is not biased toward any
particular retrieval method and we're
okay we can still accurate to tell which
method works better and this is an
important point to keep in mind when you
compare different algorithms the key is
to avoid any bias toward each matter and
as long as you can avoid that it's okay
if you do transformation of these
measures in any way so you can preserve
the order okay so we just will talk
about that we can get a lot of precision
recall numbers at different positions so
now you can imagine we can plot a curve
and this just shows on the x-axis we
show the recalls and on the y-axis we
heal the precision so the precision
levels are marked as point one point two
point three and one point two zero right
so this is the different levels of
recall and the y-axis also has different
marks that's for precision so we plot
these precision recall numbers that we
have got as points on this picture now
we can further and Link these points to
form a curve as you see we assumed all
the other precision as a high level
recalls is zero and that's why they are
down here right so they all zero in this
the actual curve problem will be
something like this but as we just
discussed it doesn't matter that much
for comparing two methods because this
will be underestimated for all the
methods okay so now that we have this
precision recall curve how can we
compare it ran to reqtest
all right so that means we have to
compare to PR curves and here if you two
cases where system a is shown red just
means you mean
blue with the crosses right so which one
is better I hope you can see more system
a is a clear better why because for the
same level of recall it's the same level
of recall here and you can see the
precision point the PI system a is
better than system B so there's no
question indeed you can imagine what
does the curve look like the for ID or
searching system well it has to have
perfect precision at all the recoil
points so it has to be this line that
would be the ideal system in general the
higher the curve is the better right the
problem is that we might see a case like
this this sector happens often like the
two curves cross each other now in this
case which one is better what do you
think now this is a real problem that
you actually might face suppose you
build a search engine and you have old
algorithm that's shown here in blue or
system B and you have come up with a new
idea and you test it and the results are
human red curve a now your question is
is your new method better than the old
method or more practically do you have
to replace the algorithm that you are
already using your in your search engine
with another new algorithm so she will
use system method a to replace method B
this is going to be a real decision that
you have to make if you make the
replacement the search engine would
behave like system a here whereas if you
don't do that it would be like a system
B so what do you do now if you want to
spend more time to think about this
pause the video and it's after very
useful to think about that as I said
it's a real decision that you have to
make if you are building your own search
engine or if you're working for a
company that cares about the search now
if you have thought about this woman you
might realize that well in this
case is hard to say now some users might
like a system may some users might like
like system B so what's the difference
here well the difference is just that
you know in the low level of recall in
this rating system B is better that's
higher precision but in high recall
reading system a is better now so that
also means it depends on whether the
user cares about the high recall or low
recall but high precision and if you
imagine someone is just going to check
out what's happening today and you want
to find some reading in the news well
which one is better what do you think in
this case clearly system B is better
because the user is unlikely examining a
lot of results the user doesn't care
about high recall on the other hand if
you think about a case where a user is
doing its day literature survey you had
a starting problem you want to find that
whether your idea has been started
before in that case you emphasize high
recall so you want to see as many
reading the documents as possible
therefore you might have favored system
a so that means which one is better
actually depends on users and more
precisely users tasks so this means you
may not necessarily be able to come up
with one number that would accurately
depict the performance you have to look
at an overall picture yet as I said when
you have a practical decision to make
whether you replace the algorithm with
another then you may have to actually
come up with a single number to quantify
each method or when we compare many
different methods in research ideally we
have one number to come here than with
so that we can easily make a lot of
comparisons so for all these reasons
it's desirable to have one single number
to measure that so how do we do that and
that needs a number to summarize a range
so here again it's the precision recall
curve I
and one way to summarize this whole
ranked list or this whole curve is look
at the area underneath the curve right
so this is one way to measure that there
are other ways to measure that but it
just turns out that this particular way
of measurement has been very popular and
has been used since a long time ago for
texture retrieval imaging and this is
basically computed in this way and it's
called an average position basically
we're going to take a look at every
different recall point and then look
after the precision so we know you know
this is one position and it's another
with different recall now this we don't
count this one because the record level
is the same and we're going to then look
at this number and that's the precision
at a different record level etc so we
have all these you know add it up these
are the Precision's that the different
points corresponding to retrieving the
first relevant document the second and
then the third the Falls etc now we miss
the many random documents so in all
those cases we just assume that they
have zero positions and then finally we
take the average so we divided by ten
and which is a total number of reading
and documenting the collection note that
here we are not dividing the sum by four
which is a number of retrieved
irrelevant documents now imagine if I
divide by four what would happen now
think about this for a moment
it's a common mistake that people
sometimes overlook right so if we you
divide this by 4 it's actually not very
good in fact that you are favoring a
system that would retrieve very few
relevant documents as in that case the
denominator would be very small so this
would be not a good measure so note that
this denominator is 10 the total number
of random documents and this were
basically computed the area and means
the curve and this is the standard
method used for evaluating a ranked list
note that it actually combines recall
and the precision but first we have
precision numbers here but secondly we
also consider recall because if you miss
the main a there would be many zeros
here so it combines precision and recall
and furthermore you can see this measure
is sensitive to a small change of a
position of a random document let's say
if I move this random document up a
little bit now it would increase this
mean at this average position whereas if
I move any rather than the docking in
the town let's say I move this where
knocking it down then it would decrease
the average position so this is very
good because it's a very sensitive to
the ranking of every random in the
document it can tell small differences
between two recta lists and that's what
we want
sometimes one algorithm only works a
slightly better than another and we want
to see this difference in contrast if we
look at the precision at the ten
documents if you look at this this whole
set well what's the precision what do
you think well it's easy to see that's
four out of ten right so that precision
is very meaningful because it tells us
what user would see so that's pretty
useful right so it's a meaningful
measure from a user's perspective but if
we use this measure to compare systems
it wouldn't be good because it wouldn't
be sensitive to where these for rather
than documents are ranked if I move them
around the precision at ten is they're
the same right so this is not a good
measure for comparing different
algorithms in contrast the average
precision is much better matching it can
tell the difference of different
difference in ranked lists in
not always